Welcome.
In this module,
we'll talk about data models.
If you completed the introductory
course of this specialization,
you might recall our
video on data variety.
One way to characterize data variety
is to identify the different models of
data that are used in any application.
So what is a data model?
And why do we care about data
models in the context of big data?
In this lesson, we'll introduce you to
three components of a data model and
what they tell us about the data.
So after this lesson, you'll be able
to distinguish between structured and
unstructured data.
Describe four basic data operations namely
selection, projection, union, and join.
And enumerate different types of data
constraints like type, value and
structural constraints.
You'll also be able to explain why
constraints are useful to specify
the semantics of data.
Now, regardless of whether the data is big
or small, one needs to know or determine
the characteristics of data before one can
manipulate or analyze them meaningfully.
Let's use a simple example,
suppose you have data is
a file of records with fields called first
name, last name and date of birth of
the employees in the company that this
file consists of records with fields,
and not for instance plain text,
gives us more insight
into the organization of the data in the
file and hence is part of the data model.
This aspect is called Structure.
Similarly, the consideration
that we can perform
data arithmetic with
the date of birth field, and
not with the first name field, is also
part of our understanding of data model.
These are called Operations.
Finally, we may know that in
this company no one's age
that is today's date minus the date
of birth, can't be less than 18.
So it gives us a way to detect records
with blatantly erroneous dates of birth.
In the following three videos,
we'll look at these three aspects
of data models more carefully.